Hello again in this video we're going to do two minor tweaks to our code so that we can declare our
basic movement complete.
Let me show you what our first challenge is.
If I click play as I move around I need to go click click click click.
Each time I want the play to move I have to click what I'd like instead is to have continuous behavior
where I can just hold down my left mouse button and have it go wherever I am waving my mouse.
So it's going to be our first challenge will take on I'm going to give that to as a challenge.
I'm going to keep it a little bit ambiguous so that you can do have a chance to do some problem solving
and I'll explain my thought process after this so you can see exactly how I go about doing it.
But here's the challenge to change of behavior so that the player can hold down the left mouse button
to continuously move.
Think about where in our code this might be controlled and to use the unity documents to help you make
a slight change.
You might know the answer already.
If not have a look in the unity documents and see if you can find what you could change to do that.
So it's a little bit vague I haven't given you too many clues beforehand but this is more of a on a
teach you how to think through the problem kind of challenge.
So he go jump in take that on.
I'll see you back here when you're done.
OK.
Hopefully you did give this a tried and just look at it and say Ah I don't even know where to start
with this but if you are struggling with this not a problem.
This is part of programming.
And let me show you the thought process I went through.
So I want to go instead of going click click click I want to hold down click.
So I know that's going to be in my movie script and something to do with my mouse.
And we're using input yet mouse button down so straight away on why I had got to be something to do
with this and the way that we can get clues on this is we know that we have our get button down method
here and we know that there's going to be more than just that we can use.
So we're looking within the input closer input dot something.
If I jump over to my Unity docs have a look here I can search for unity.
Sorry.
To search for input.
Of course you want unity Rick what are you talking about.
So search for input and within input we can see what's going on here if you want to take the time read
it really deeply understand it.
But the quicker way is to go and find get mouse button down and sort of see what else is going on around
there.
So get mouse button down.
Returns true during the frame the user press the given button.
So it's returning true once just when we click down.
It's going to return.
Return true again.
When we click down another time let's have a look around here right above.
Get Mark mouse button down returns whether the mouse button is held down.
So we want this.
We want to be returning true if the mouse button is held down.
So this is a really easy tweak we just go into our code within update.
Don't hit the wrong button on your keyboard with an update input.
Get get mouse button down it's going to remove the down and save that.
We'll check that this works it's always good practice.
Here we go.
Let's check.
And it's working nicely.
OK.
And you even do a little spin around on the spot.
What would you do.
OK.
So that's the first thing I think that makes our game a lot tighter just a very easy little piece of
code tweaking.
The second thing you might not have had this yet but we will get some issues as we put more stuff into
our game where there's a jitter between the player and the camera where it looks like the player is
kind of skipping forward skipping backwards.
And that's something that we could wrestle with and scratch our head for a while and not know what's
going on.
But Sam and I've already scratched our head and wrestled with that.
So we'll save you that.
I was hoping we'd see it in the game so you could see the issue and we could go through the process
of figuring it out but it's a little bit difficult when you can't actually reproduce it.
So what what is going on on what could go on in that instance is we have our camera is being updated
each frame with an update the follow camera so it's moving along as it's trying to track where the player
is track track track track the player is moving along as well it's got its animations got what's going
on in the nav mesh sometimes there's a little bit of a mismatch where the camera tries to move first
and the player hasn't yet moved so the camera moves a little bit then we see the player move.
Other times the playing moves and we see the camera move that sort of mismatch when you see that going
on.
The thing I want you to think about is what's happening in terms of order of execution.
So if you're not familiar with order of execution you can jump over in a Google search for a unity order
of execution.
I've given you a link to this as well.
Click on that and you can see that there is a specific order that unity executes its functions executes
what's going on on each frame and if you scroll down you'll see here's the script lifecycle flow chart
and we can see right the very very saw the very first that's going to happen on initialization is awake
and within our game logic.
This is what we're interested in here.
We have update bunch of other things happen.
Internal animation update and then we have late update so we have an option in there if you find that
something really needs to happen after something else one of the ways you can do it you say well let's
put this in late update.
So which do you think we need to put in light.
Update our animation or our camera okay.
If you if you say camera you right.
So we want our animation to do its thing on a frame and then we want our camera to follow that afterwards
so we don't get that jumping where the camera's trying to guess where the frame where the character
is going to be.
So going to your follow camera script and where we have void Update we simply change that to void light
update.
Okay.
Once again just jump back over there and test that we haven't created any issues.
It should probably look very similar to what we had just now because we weren't seeing the bug or that
much.
Okay cool.
Yep looking nice and smooth.
Camera in light update now what we're going to do at this point is declare our basic movement done I'm
pretty happy with this there's a little bit of foot slipping I can tweak and tune I think his movement
a little bit more not super happy with the turning circle but until we get more things going on in our
game we do want to finish this right down to the core we didn't have an enemy to dodge around and we
need to have a combat happening and what happens when I swing the sword does that still have my movement
look how it's supposed to look will do I need to move my camera in on my camera out.
So at this stage I think we have enough to say yep basic movement is done so let's move on to the next
section.
So a couple of other things to tidy up this section of the course that I'm going to show you but for
now we need to clear basic movement done great work well done.
And I'll see you in the next video.